Alright here's
another simple but great exercise, your job is to create a function
called show properties. We pass an object here. And this function
should display all the properties of this object that are
of type string. Let me give you an example. So on the
top, I'm going to define an object,
like movie, here's the object literal syntax to initialize this,
so here we're gonna add a few properties like title,
set it to a simple string, the value doesn't really matter, a is enough.
Release here, we set it to a number, like 2018.
Rating, again, a number, and then director
we set it to another string. Now if we call
function showProperties, we pass this movie object
see what we get. We see the
string properties of our movie object, so title is a and director is
b. So pause the video, do the exercise
and when you're done come back and continue watching.
Alright here we need to use the for in loop
to iterate over the properties of this object. So,
for let key in object
so in each iteration this key will hold
the name of one of these properties. Let's have a quick look here, console.log
of key. So we get title, release
Year and so on. Now we need to get the value of each of these properties
and then check the type of that value. If the type is a string
then we'll display the property and it's value.
So to get the value of this property we use the bracket notation, so
object of key. Now to check the type of this value
use the typeof operator and then we put this in an
if statement. So if the type of object
of key equals string, then
we simply display the
key as well as object of
key, save the changes.
We only get the title and director properties. That's
something I need to emphasize here, you might be wondering why I didn't
use curly braces here. Because we have two lines
under this 4 statement. Well accurately we only have
single statement under this for statement so this
console.log is a single statement that belongs to our if statement.
So here we don't need curly braces because we're dealing with a
single statement under the for statement. But if you prefer
to put the curly braces here, that's perfectly fine. So let me show you
it looks like this. It's more of a personal preference.